The path traversal or directory traversal.
Local file inclusion and remote file inclusion are all attacks of the same family.
Their purpose is to access a file from other location than expected.
The mitigation methods are roughly the same for all three, so we will discuss them altogether.
The path traversal is a type of attack in which a user gains access to files in other locations on the
server than intended by modifying the path to the file.
See these example.
The code includes a file based on the contents of the T variable when t is zero one.
The included file will be 01. BHP from the articles directory.
In the second example, someone exploited the system by preceding the file name with dot, dot, dot,
dot slash and the file name is config.
Instead of an article, add in the fact the contents of the config BHP file if only it exists there
is displayed.
The same type of attack can be conducted when uploading or deleting a file.
In other words, something might be put in a place where it shouldn't be.
Or something unintended might get deleted if only a user will be able to somehow influence the target
path.
But traversal attack is often similar to local file inclusion vulnerability, which is when someone
is able to include the file from the server which they shouldn't have access to.
In this example, again, we expect an article ID to provide to the include function, but an attacker
is able to include the file from admin directory which could potentially give them an access to some
admin tools if the file itself is not properly protected.
The remote find inclusion is a vulnerability in which an attacker is able to include the file from another
server.
The security problem here is that the PDP code hosted on another server will be executed on the victim's
server on the same privileges as local files.
So the remote file could do pretty much everything.
This is really serious.
So how do you protect against all of these attacks?
There is a number of functions in the BGP which are dangerous.
For example, include require file, get contents or read file.
They are dangerous because with them it's possible to access any file on the server.
Also those outside the Webroot.
So when you don't expect any path, but only if file name, simply use the base name function.
When including a file, especially when the path elements are allowed, always start with some defined
local path.
Either use document root to start from your sites webroot and then build the path or start with gets
TWD function that will return the path of the current BHP file.
If you accept the situation in which user specifies the path, not only a file name, you also needs
to use the real path function.
It resolves all directory changes and symbolic readings and returns the final canonical path name.
You can use it to check if the actual path is the same as the path provided by user.
The real function will help you fend off attacks trying to go up your directory tree.
But someone might wants to go down and get access to nested folders which they are not supposed to access.
See the example.
This is a file in folder structure.
The Bolt BHP column, BHP and group BHP files are drawings of the respective geometric figures.
The draw BHP file is the one that includes any of those three.
The code inside looks just like an example before.
First it builds the include path based on the current directory requested file name and BGP extension
and then compares it with the real path result to ensure someone is not trying to access the file from
outside of the current directory.
As a result, it includes a requested shape if only the file exists.
So the request shown that the location bar above the code would include both P2P.
But this would return an error as the cylinder B file doesn't exist.
But now this would include the admin appeared to be fine from an inner directory which was never meant
to be included there and may contain some confidential data or functions.
And the real function will not help you here because the provided path is real, resolves to itself
and is totally valid.
You protect yourself from this way of traversal, you need to strictly validate the file names for potential
inclusion or limit the source of inclusion.
To validate the final aims for inclusion, we should have used a regular expression to filter out anything
a part of, let's say, letters, 8% digits, underscores and the dashes.
Or we could check the file name against the white list.
But do not use file exists for that.
As the private slash admin BHP file indeed exists, but we need to protect it.
The second method would be to limit the source of inclusion.
That is, to move the shapes definitions to a separate folder and define the base directory as this
folder.
So in draw BHP you change the first line, adding the shapes to the base path.
With this set up, there will be no files inside the base directory, which you would not expect to
be included there.
And the real path function will keep protecting the inclusion system from someone trying to include
anything from outside the shapes directory.
And if there will be no nested folders there, you can use the base name function to.
Finally, it's always a good idea to further validate the path according to your requirements.
Take, for example, if the file name ends with an extension that you expect.
Or in the example with shapes we had all our shapes name with their English names so we could verify
if the requested name contains something as the letters and maybe dashes and reject if yes, be strict
as possible with the validation process.
You can also abandon the approach of expecting file, name or particular file and instead call for the
resources ad by which you will get the path, for example, from database.
The ID doesn't have to be numerical, of course, as that could allow anyone to easily access consecutive
files.
It can be a random token, a unique ID or something else, which would be random and unique.
Of course, this court puts total trust in the process of inserting a record to the database.
The paths stored in the database could be forged.
If something goes wrong there.
For example, if your site is vulnerable to skew with injection attacks, this is harder to achieve
for an attacker, but still possible.
That's why you still should do all the previously mentioned checks when you use the ID approach.
Use base name.
If only the file name is expected.
Use base directory.
Compare against the result of real path function.
And to do all necessary validation before finally including the file.
In this cold example, we don't expect the final name only, so we don't use baby's name.
But we prepared the path with the base directory.
And compared the full path against the result of real battle function.